# SEA_Housing_Map
Seattle Housing Supply &amp; Population Map Dashboard

**_Created by_** Travis Lee, Kevin Chao, and Kaitlyn Billington

## URLs
> **WebPage:** https://tralee10.github.io/SEA_Housing_Map/index.html

> **Permit Map:** https://tralee10.github.io/SEA_Housing_Map/house_map.html

> **Population Map:** https://tralee10.github.io/SEA_Housing_Map/pop_map.html

## Project Overview
This project aims to provide insight into how effectively housing development responds to demographic changes. By visualizing these relationships spatially, users can better understand where housing supply may be keeping up with demand and where gaps may exist. The broader impact includes improving transparency in housing development patterns and potentially informing city planners, policymakers, researchers, and residents.

### Key Objectives
- Increase public awareness of traffic hazards.
- Help city planners make data-driven urban planning decisions.
- Enable drivers and commuters to navigate more safely.

### Target Audience
- **Seattle City Planners**: utilizing the map for informed decision-making when planning future developments.
- **Housing Policy Researchers**: assessessing the data to understand housing trends in reference to population data.
- **Students & General Public**: exploring the map for personal or educational purposes, getting a better idea of what is going on within different communities.

### Functions
**Time-Based Sliders**
> - The **Year Issued** slider alters which points are shown on the map based on the year in which the building permit was issued. 
> - The **Year Finished** slider alters which points are shown on the map based on the year in which the building was completed. 


**Dropdowns**
> - The **Permit Type** dropdown filters the data being viewed at one time based on the type of permit they have, either construction or demolition.
> - The **Dwelling Type** dropdown filters the data being viewed at one time based on the type of dwelling being built. This includes things like "Detached Single-Family", "Apartment", "Accessory Dwelling, Attached", etc.
> - The **Neighborhood** dropdown filters the data being viewed at one time based on the neighborhood that the permits are set in. In Seattle, this includes places like "Northeast", "Northwest", and "Ballard".
> - The **Urban Village Name** dropdown filters the data being viewed at one time based on the urban village that the permits are set in. In Seattle, this includes places like "University District Northwest", "Roosevelt", and "Capitol Hill".


## Data
### Sources
[**Built Units Since 2010**](https://data-seattlecitygis.opendata.arcgis.com/datasets/SeattleCityGIS::built-units-since-2010/about): records from the City of Seattle. Includes building permits assigned for creating or demolishing housing units from 2010-2020. This dataset came from the the _Seattle GeoData Portal_ and was cleaned to create our [```built_units.csv```](assets/built_units.csv) and [```built_units.geojson```](assets/built_units.geojson) files located in the assets folder.

[**Annual Population and Housing Estimates for 2020 Census Blocks in Seattle**](https://data-seattlecitygis.opendata.arcgis.com/datasets/SeattleCityGIS::annual-population-and-housing-estimates-for-2020-census-blocks-in-seattle/about): population estimates  from the Small Area Estimates Program (SAEP), generated by the Washington State Office of Financial Management. The data includes population and housing data by census block. This dataset came from the the _Seattle GeoData Portal_ and was cleaned to create our [```2020_population.csv```](assets/2020_population.csv) and [```2020_population.geojson```](assets/2020_population.geojson) files located in the assets folder.

### Applied Libraries and Web Services
- **Mapbox GL JS**: used for interactive basemap
- _D3 or char.js for charts -> TBD_
- **github**: used to publish webpage

### AI Acknowledgement
_ChatGPT was used to create the [```favicon.png```](img/map_favicon.png)_